So, just as we did up here with our Vanilla JavaScript UI,
we want to make our todos component responsible for getting some input from the user,
and then adding that input as a new property on the state of our react store.
So, what we'll do is let's head over to
our todos component and let's change up the UI just a little bit.
So, we'll render a header that says todo list.
And then we want to render an input field.
Type will be text.
We'll have a placeholder of add todo,
and then what we're going to do,
is this is going to be an uncontrolled component meaning,
instead of sticking the value of this input field on our component state,
what we're going to do is we will add a ref.
We will then stick this ref on this component instance.
So now, whenever we want to grab the value of the input field,
we can just grab it from the instance,
as we will see here in a second.
And then we also want to render a button that says add todo.
And then when this button is clicked,
we will go ahead and invoke a method that we're about to create right now.
We will call it add item.
So now, what add item is going to do,
is it will receive an event,
for which we need to call prevent default on.
And then, we want to get the name of the new text item,
which is going to be the same obviously as the input field.
So, we can say name,
it's going to equal this.input.value because
we stuck the input on this.input inside of our ref.
And then now, we want to reset the input field back to an empty string.
And if you'll remember,
what we're doing is we want to add a new item to our to do list.
And from our Vanilla JavaScript UI,
what we call is the add todo action.
So, we are going to dispatch add todo action,
parsing in the name,
setting complete to false and then having the ID come from generate ID.
So, I'm going to copy this because we're going to do something very
similar inside of our todos component.
So, I'll paste this into here.
But one thing we are going to change up is instead of just
accessing the store because we're in the same file here,
and we still have access to a technically, eventually,
what we're going to do is we're going to be breaking down all
of these different components into their own modules,
which means we are going to either want to import the store
or we're going to want to parse the store down as props to this component.
So, what we'll do is we will choose the latter.
So, when we render our app,
what I want to do here is let's go ahead and parse this store down as props.
So eventually, this will be in its own file.
And what we'll need to do is we will import store from another file.
So, we'll parse it down to our app component.
Our app component will then get it and parse it as a prop to our todos component.
And then our todos component can get it and then say this.props.store.dispatch.
And then we can invoke the add todo action creator.
So again, we could have just called store.dispatch because technically,
we are still in the same scope as store.
So, we can still access that because it is somewhere inside of our app right here.
But because we're eventually going to breaking these into separate modules,
parsing it in as a prop will just set
our future code up a little bit better when we start refactoring.
But now what should happen is when we
come over here and add a new todo item from our React app,
let's say walk the dog,
what we should see in the console is we get the add todo action here.
But what's interesting about this is you'll notice,
even though we haven't set up the list component yet to render the new todo item,
if you look at our Vanilla JavaScript app which is already listening to the same store,
we get that item up here.
So, what's cool about this is we've completely decoupled our state from our UI,
meaning we have a JavaScript UI up here.
And we have a React UI down here.
And because they're referencing the same state,
we can add a new item down here,
and that will update the UI down here.
So again, not super practical but it's cool because it
shows how we are really decoupling our state from our UI.